# Plan
## The Lüm Way
Say goodbye to the old way of wireless. Lüm Mobile has a new way of doing things with no monthly plans or billing dates. You just:

1. Buy a Lüm membership
2. Buy data as you need it

Tired of losing your unused data? As long as you keep your membership active, your data won’t expire. Buy and use data whenever YOU need it.

## WAYS TO SAVE WITH A LÜM MEMBERSHIP
Never lose data you’ve paid for
Unlike providers where you lose unused data at the end of your monthly bill
No unexpected or pricey overages
Because you don’t have a monthly limit to stay under
Always full speed
No data caps or throttles that slow your speed down
Only pay for what you use
Don’t pay for extras like unlimited calling or voicemail if you don’t need them


## How to get Lüm Membership
Membership means access to great rates on data that never expires – powered by Canada’s largest network

- Choose your Lüm Membership
Use auto-pay for worry free membership renewals

3 MONTHS for $60 (Lüm Membership)
1 YEAR for $200  (Lüm Membership)   

- 9-1-1 fee is extra.

- Add your data
Keep your membership active and your data never expires! Keep it until you need it. When you run low, recharge data from the Lüm Mobile app.
    1. 2 GB for $15
    2. 6 GB for $30
    3. 14 GB for $55
    4. 25 GB for $80
    5. 50 GB for $140
    6. 95 GB for $200

With Lüm, there are no charges for minutes or messages: just megabytes (MB).
Calls and texts come out of your data balance. That’s how we do things at Lüm - we think that if you don’t make calls, you shouldn’t pay for them, either.

1 MB of data = 10 outgoing texts (from Canada to Canada, U.S. or Mexico)  
1 MB of data = 1 minute to talk anywhere in Canada  (from Canada to Canada, U.S. or Mexico) 

That means with just 1 GB you can talk for 8 hours AND send 5,000 text messages!

- (Optional add-on service on top of Lüm Membership):
Add Unlimited Talk & Text if you want to!
If you want to keep it old school, great! Add the Talk & Text add-on to your Lüm membership for unlimited talk and texts from within Canada to anywhere in Canada or the U.S. The Add-on will renew with your membership (unless you choose to remove it).

3 MONTHS for $25 Plus taxes (Talk & Text)
1 YEAR for $75  Plus taxes  (Talk & Text)  
 
Add Voicemail if you need it!
If you want voicemail, you can add that to your Lüm membership too! Securely store up to 25 messages and check them anytime from your cell phone, or a landline phone - on your schedule. The add-on will renew with your membership (unless you choose to remove it).

3 MONTHS for $15 Plus taxes (Voicemail)
1 YEAR for $60    Plus taxes  (Voicemail)

#### Only $1! WOW – Save big today!
Life's expensive. That's why Lüm Mobile is not. Sign up today and get a 3 month membership and 6 GB of data for only $1!
Want a longer membership and more data? You can save too! If you’re new to Lüm, you automatically save up to $96 when you sign up.
This is a limited time offer. Don't miss out. Sign up and save today!


### Share your love for Lüm and save!
Have a friend sign up to Lüm and you both save $25! Get your referral code from your myLüm account and share the code with your friend. They use the code to save $25 on their first purchase, then you automatically save $25 on your next membership renewal (if your friend doesn't cancel within 15 days after activating).

It's our way of saying thank you! Full details in the terms below.


## Link with Lüm
The love for Lüm is strong! You asked and we heard — now you can link with Lüm.


If you have multiple people in your life that subscribe to Lüm and you want to manage all their accounts from one place, now is the time. Use your myLüm account to sign up & link someone brand new or you can link a member already with Lüm. You choose the amount of responsibility for each of your linked accounts — give them full control of changes and payments, or none at all. We leave that up to you!


(Each member on a linked account still purchases their own services — there is no sharing or pooling of memberships, data or add-ons. Learn more!).



# Payment
Lüm Mobile is totally digital - that means payment is too. We accept payment by credit card or most Mastercard/Visa debit cards. For ultimate convenience and uninterrupted access, set your account to auto-pay to automatically renew your membership and recharge data when you need it. Notifications can be set to remind you about auto-pay so you don’t get surprised!

If you’re more budget-conscious, we hear you! You can set your data to recharge on a calendar date or even choose to leave auto-pay turned off and control your payments manually.

# Take Lüm with you / Roaming with Lüm
You can use Lüm all over the U.S. and Mexico —don’t forget to send us pictures!
Note: Lum services are not available outside of USA and Maxico.

Travel data works the same way as all your other data: buy more as you need it and save anything left over for your next trip! Your travel data is yours as long as your membership is active.

Need to make calls or texts? You can!
1 MB = 1 minute  
1 MB = 1 text  (incoming texts free)

U.S. Travel data 1GB for $15

Mexico Travel Data  1GB for $30

## Become a member today!
Lum Mobile is 100% digital self-serve. Download the Lüm Mobile app to sign up and get started.

## bringphone
Bring Your Own Phone
At Lüm, it’s all about selling data – so you can bring your own phone and we won’t try to sell you something newer or more expensive.
Goto https://lum.ca/bringphone and enter your phone's IMEI number to make sure that your phone is compatible with Lüm and isn’t listed as lost or stolen. 

Love your phone number? Bring that, too! You can bring Saskatchewan phone numbers (306 or 639 area code) over to Lüm from most providers. But how, you ask? After you sign up and receive your eSIM or physical SIM card - the online process to activate your SIM will also take you through the steps to move your number . It is important NOT to cancel your account with your old provider just yet - once you complete the steps to move your number it will cancel your old account. You can always choose to get a new number with Lüm as well!

# Activate your SIM
- Hold up! To get up and running with Lüm Mobile, you’ll need to sign up and get an eSIM or order a SIM card. If you’ve already done that (and have your SIM card in hand if you need one), keep going and activate now.
For more details on activating your sim card refer to this article on [https://help.lum.ca/kb/articles/31-activating-your-sim-card?utm_source=community-search&utm_medium=organic-search&utm_term=sim+activate] for SIM activation and this article on [https://help.lum.ca/kb/articles/136-esim-activation-by-phone-type] for esim activation. 
- provide esim article when asked about queries on esim activation.


# #Bloom With Lüm
Lüm Mobile is committed to use our voice and social media to share information to spark conversations and inspire actions to help the environment.

## Let’s get started!  

When we mail your SIM card, we’ll include a little something extra: a packet of locally sourced, native wildflower seeds that you can plant in your yard, a window box,or even a boulevard garden. In the cooler months, start the plants indoors and move them outside in the spring! Your new wildflower garden is more than a pretty space -- it’s one square meter of pollinator habitat and one small step for sustainability.

Saskatchewan is home to hundreds of pollinator species like leafcutter bees, bumble bees, butterflies, moths, insects, and hummingbirds. These pollinators help grow crops that are responsible for 1 out of every 2 bites of food we eat and habitat loss is the biggest single threat they face. Your new patch of wildflowers may seem like a small contribution, but it’s actually a pretty big deal!

Join us in making smart environmental choices, taking small steps to improve our world, and doing your part to ensure our planet is sustainable for years to come.

## Get Involved
We love watching our small actions add up to big change. Follow us on Instagram to learn more and share what you and your community are doing!

### Making your home more “green” or eco-friendly doesn’t just benefit the environment – it can benefit your wallet, too! We spend a significant amount of time at home and making some small changes can have a big impact. Some “green” improvements can be made quickly with no cost, while others are a bit more work/budget. Check out our Instagram @lummobile for some easy green home tips!


# FAQ

### What do I get with a Lüm membership ? 

You know Costco? Where you buy a membership to get access to great things? What a great idea! Lüm membership gives you access to buy data that never expires at great rates on a trusted network. Plus you get everything you need to get your service up and running at no extra cost- your SIM card, activation and phone number (new or bring your own). Did you know many providers charge for the SIM and up to $50 for activation fees alone?

You also get free call display, unlimited incoming texts and access to call forwarding, call waiting and three way calling.

### Can I change my membership ? 
Lüm offers 3 month and 1 year memberships. When your current membership reaches its end date, you can renew with a different membership term.

### Can I add the Talk & Text or Voicemail ad-on anytime ?
Yes! You can add the Talk & Text or Voicemail add-on anytime during your membership. If you get the add-on partway through your membership term, the price you pay for the add-on will be reduced to match the amount of time left on your membership.

### What if I want to cancel my membership ?
You can cancel your membership at any time but we do not provide refunds.  
If you choose to cancel your membership, you will lose any remaining data.  

### What can I use to manage my service and payments ?

Auto-pay lets you set automatic payments to renew membership and recharge data. Auto-pay can also be turned off for either membership renewals or data recharges. You decide how you want to manage things! Service notifications will let you manage helpful reminders like when your data is running low, membership is nearing expiry, or an automatic payment is about to be charged

In the Membership Overview, you'll find:
A description detailing the service duration and cost.
The expiration date indicating the next renewal date.
Overall membership details showcasing the duration and cost.
If you have forgotten your password, click on the "Forgot Password" link and follow the instructions to reset it. You will need to provide the email address associated with your account to receive a password reset link.
Once you are logged in to your myLüm account, you will be able to manage your service, view usage, make payments, and access various account-related features.

### Can I transfer my Lüm data to another customer?
Once data is purchased, it can't be shared or transferred to another customer. 

### Can i use my Lum Data in other location than U.S and Mexico?
Lüm Mobile services are only available within Canada, the U.S., and Mexico. If you're travelling to other international locations like Antarctica, you might want to explore other ways to use mobile service, such as buying a SIM card from the international location you are travelling to or using Wi-Fi.

### How can i log in to my account?
To log in to your Lüm Mobile account, follow these steps:

1. Go to the Lüm Mobile website at [https://www.lum.ca].

2. Click on the "Login" or "myLüm" button, usually located at the top right corner of the website.

3. Enter your registered email address and password associated with your Lüm Mobile account.

4. Click on the "Login" or "Sign In" button to access your account.
If you are having trouble logging in or need further assistance, please don't hesitate to contact our customer service team by submitting a trouble ticket using the 'Raise Request' button.


### How do I get a SIM?
If you are new to Lüm, download the app or use the website to sign up and get started. 
Once you buy your membership and data, if your phone is eSIM capable you can activate and get started right away. 
If you need a physical SIM card, it will take 1 business day to ship.
After it's shipped - it will take 1-3 business days for your SIM card to arrive through Canada Post.  
If you are already with Lüm - you can order another SIM from your myLüm account.

### Tips to activate your service
With an eSIM, you can activate your account and start using Lüm right away.
If you need a physical SIM card, here are directions to insert your SIM card.
Once your SIM is activated - test things out by making a phone call, sending a text and using your data.
If you are having any trouble, get help.

### With Lüm, you bring your own phone. Any tips if I’m getting a used phone?
Make sure the phone isn't too old - the age of a phone may affect the services it can use.
It's best if the phone was purchased in North America - phones purchased from other countries may not work. 
You might need a few extra pointers if you didn't originally buy the phone from a cellular provider. 

### Can I bring my own phone number?
Yes! You can bring a phone number over to Lüm from most providers - but it does need to be a Saskatchewan phone number (306 or 639 area code).  Once you have your eSIM or receive your SIM card: [https://lum.ca/activate]. The online process to activate your SIM will take you through the steps to move your number over. It is important NOT to cancel your account with your old provider before this - once you complete the number move it will automatically cancel your old account.

### Can I sign up today and activate later?
Yes, you can sign up for Lüm Mobile today and activate your service later. After signing up, you can download the Lüm Mobile app to get started. If your phone is eSIM capable, you can activate and start using Lüm right away. If you need a physical SIM card, it will take 1 business day to ship. After it's shipped, it will take 1-3 business days for your SIM card to arrive. Once you have your SIM card or eSIM, you can activate your service at your convenience. Your membership will start the day you activate your sim. 


# Terms and Conditions 

## Plans
When signing up for service, you must agree to the Lüm Mobile Terms of Service [https://lum.ca/terms]  and the Lüm Mobile Privacy Policy [https://lum.ca/privacy].  
Prices do not include GST or PST. 
 
## Membership 
- Included in your membership is: 

- the option to purchase Canada Data and Travel Data
- a phone number or moving your existing phone number from another provider 
- service activation with no additional charge
- one SIM card with your first membership
- unlimited incoming text (SMS) messages, and 
- Call Display and access to Call Forwarding, Call Waiting, and Three-way calling. 

- Membership purchase does not include data.  
- You must purchase Canada Data with your first membership purchase. 
- Memberships auto-renew with current in market pricing to help you avoid losing your data balance.  You can opt-out of membership auto-renewal in your myLüm account. If your membership  expires, your account will be suspended, and you’ll lose access to wireless services through Lüm.  
- There is a 15-day trial period for new memberships that starts on the date of activation.  If a membership is cancelled during the 15-day trial period, a full refund for the membership fee, 9-1-1 fees, taxes and the Talk & Text add-on will be provided. 
- There is no refund for Canada or Travel Data that has been purchased.  After the trial period, memberships can be cancelled at anytime, but no refunds will be provided. 
- The membership fee does not include 9-1-1 fees or taxes. 
 

## Use and Data Charges 
- When you talk, send a text message, or use data, the applicable data cost is deducted from your data balance unless you have the Talk and Text add-on. 
- Your data balance does not expire while you have an active membership, but once a membership expires, any data remaining expires 60 days after your membership end date. 
- When you are getting close to using up your data, we will send you a notification (unless you choose to opt-out of the notification). If you run out of data, you will not be able to use any services.  If you run out of data, 9-1-1 calls can still be made. 
- Data purchases cannot be transferred to another customer. 
 

## Canada Data 
- Auto-recharge can be turned on in your myLüm account to automatically purchase data for you when your balance is close to running out
- If you have data set to auto-recharge, it will automatically purchase data at the current in-market rate. 
- When you talk, send a text message, or use data while in Canada, the applicable data amount is deducted from your data balance. For more details see Terms of Service. 
 

## Travel Data 
- You can purchase Travel Data to roam in the U.S. and Mexico where service is available.  Data purchased for Canada cannot be used in the U.S. and Mexico Travel Data:  
-  U.S. Travel data 1GB for $15
- Mexico Travel Data  1GB for $30
- may only be used outside of Canada;  
- cannot be transferred to the Canada data balance and is non-refundable. 
* Every time you talk, send a message, or use data, the applicable cost is deducted from your Travel Data balance.  Outgoing text messages are deducted from the data balance at a rate of 1 MB per message.  All incoming and outgoing calls are deducted from the data balance at a rate of 1 MB per minute.  MMS messages are deducted from the data balance based on the actual size of the picture or video. 
- The Talk & Text add-on does not include calls made and messages sent while roaming outside of Canada.  
- Travel Data cannot be set to auto-pay. 
- If you purchase $100 in Travel Data in any 30-day period, you will be required to consent to purchases over $100. 


## Talk and Text Add-on: Optional 
- The Talk & Text add-on includes unlimited outgoing calls and messages while you are in Canada to Canada and the U.S. 
- It also includes incoming calls and text messages while you are in Canada from Canada and the U.S. 
- The Talk & Text add-on does not include calls made and messages sent while roaming outside of Canada. Picture and video messages (MMS) are not included in the Talk & Text add-on.  
- The Talk & Text add-on will automatically renew when your membership auto-renews, and you will be charged the current in-market rate.  You can cancel the Talk & Text add-on at any time but it will not be refunded. 

 

## Voicemail Add-on: Optional 
- Voicemail boxes can store up to 25 messages. Messages can be up to 3 minutes in duration.
- The voicemail service add-on will automatically renew when your membership auto-renews, and you will be charged the current in-market rate.
- You can cancel voicemail service at any time, but it will not be refunded.
- You are responsible for protecting your mailbox by regularly updating your password.
- Calls into the voicemail service from your Lüm phone are not deducted from your data balance.

## 9-1-1 Service 
- A 9-1-1 fee applies to all memberships purchased for Lüm Mobile.  The fee is an amount we must pay to the 9-1-1 service operator for 9-1-1 to work on your phone. 
- This fee will be charged in addition to the membership fee whenever a membership is purchased. 
- The 9-1-1 fee is charged for the total number of months that your membership is valid.  
- If your membership is cancelled with more than a month remaining, the unused portion of the 9-1-1 fee will be refunded back to the payment card on your account. 
- See 9-1-1 Limitations.

# Deals  
## New Customer Offer
- Offer available to "New" Lüm customers. "New" Lüm customers are defined as a customer that has not had a Lüm Mobile membership in the past 6 months. New Linked accounts are eligible if the linked account is a "New" Lüm customer. 
- "New" Lüm customers receive up to an $96 discount off their first purchase. The discount is automatically applied. The total invoice can be reduced to $0.26 by the applicable discount. A total invoice can be $0.26 but not less.  
- - provide a complete breakdown of $96 in the response like - you can say our promo provides you 3 months at $60 and 6GB of data which is $30 plus 911 fees. We are not restricting you to this plan though if you choose something higher therefore we will auto apply the max discount of $96 on your first invoice. PS. If you have a referral code you also receive $25 off and the person who referred you will receive a$25 credit on their next renewal.
- The promotional discount can be applied to any membership and data purchase available to new customers at the time of the offer.  
- The promotional discount only applies to a purchase with Lüm – it has no cash value and will never be refunded as cash in the event of cancelling service.
- Offer can be combined with Refer a Friend offer. 
- Offer available for a limited time. 
- Offer is subject to change or may end at any time.  

## Refer a Friend  
- "Existing" Lüm customers can share their referral code with a friend to refer them to Lüm. A customer is "Existing" if they have purchased / have an active Membership. 
- "New" Lüm customer (that cannot already be an active Lüm customer) uses the referral code to redeem the promotion. 
-  New Lüm customer must apply referral code during their first membership purchase and will save $25 on the first purchase. New customers can save a maximum of $25 with the promotion.
-  After New customer successfully receives promotion, the Existing customer automatically saves $25 off the price of their next membership renewal.  Existing customers must renew their membership before it expires to receive their promo. If Existing customer lets their membership expire – they cannot receive the referral promo until a future renewal where membership is renewed before it expires. Keep auto-pay on for membership renewals to guarantee referral savings!  
- Existing customer can refer up to a maximum of 2 friends and receive two $25 discounts for a total savings of $50 off their next membership renewal. 
- Existing customer that refers more than 2 friends cannot carry-over extra/ additional referrals to their next membership renewal.
- After a membership renewal, Existing customer referral count goes back to zero, and are eligible to keep referring & again receive up to two $25 discounts (for a total of $50) off their next membership renewal.
- Existing customer cannot refer the same friend multiple times.
- The promotional discounts only apply to a purchase with Lüm – it has no cash value and will never be refunded as cash in the event of cancelling service.
- If the New customer purchases service but then cancels their service within 15 days – the Existing customer will not receive the promotion.
- Promotion is subject to change or end at anytime.

## For Promotional , Offer or Gift Card Details 
There are certain promotional offers available for new customers. If you signed up during a promotional period, you may be eligible for certain benefits. For the most accurate and up-to-date information regarding promotions and offers, it's recommended to visit our deals page [https://lum.ca/plan_deals] and the Legal section for terms at [https://lum.ca/cms/legal] or contact the customer service team. Remember, Lüm Mobile is committed to providing you with the best possible service and support. Keep going, you're doing great! 

# Getting Started  
 
## Eligibility for Service 
- Customers must reside in Saskatchewan and have a billing and shipping address within the province to sign up for the Service. 
- You must bring your own phone. 
- Your phone and its software must meet minimum Lüm network standards.  Our network standards will be updated sometimes, and you may no longer be able to use the service without - upgrading your software or phone.  

# Coverage 
 
## Service Area and Coverage Details  
- You can use the Service within Lüm��s coverage areas in Saskatchewan or areas served by companies with whom we have roaming agreements in the rest of Canada. 
- You can call and text numbers in Canada, the U.S., and Mexico. You cannot receive international calls and text messages from countries other than Canada, the U.S., and Mexico.  The U.S. includes Alaska, Hawaii and the country of Guam. 
- Roaming is only available in the U.S. and Mexico where Lüm has agreements with roaming partners. Coverage areas, and the connectivity in these areas, will depend on the availability of network facilities which is subject to change from time to time, without notice.   

## When user asks about using the services in other countries (like Paris or Europe)
- Take Lüm Mobile with you when you travel to the U.S. and Mexico! Lüm uses AT&T’s LTE network across the U.S., automatically switching to 4G outside the LTE coverage area. Please be advised our U.S. network partners made 3G network changes in 2022 that will impact voice calls in the U.S. unless you have a VoLTE eligible phone. Learn more about VoLTE phones here. PLUS - there is more good news - data and text messaging will still work for all phones in the U.S. so you can buy Travel Data and still make voice calls with data services like FaceTime and WhatsApp. If you're travelling to other international locations, you can still take your Lüm phone and explore other ways to use mobile service, like buying a SIM card from the international location you are travelling to or using Wi-Fi
 
## Fair and Appropriate Use 
Lüm Mobile services are meant to be used primarily within Saskatchewan. If more than half of your data usage on an ongoing basis is occurring outside of Saskatchewan, Lüm Mobile reserves the right to limit your data, the amount of data transferred, deny, suspend, or terminate the service or any part, component, or feature thereof, without notice, to anyone believed to be using any Lüm Mobile wireless service or feature in any manner that adversely impacts Lüm Mobile.   

## Network Operation, Details & Limitations 
Speeds are limited by environmental factors including tower locations, distance from cell sites, network congestion, tower hand-offs, and phone used.  

## Wireless Alerts 
We are not responsible for the operation of public alerting systems, including the Alert Ready System.  We do not control the content, timing and/or who can receive messages.  See alertready.ca/wireless for current alerts and further details.

# FAQ

## 3G U.S. network shutdown
Our U.S. network partners (AT&T and T-Mobile) turned down their 3G networks

AT&T shutdown Feb 2022
T-Mobile shutdown July 2022
We relied on these partners 3G networks to enable traditional voice calling when you travel to the U.S. - therefore, voice calls (incoming and outgoing) will not work after these shutdown dates while roaming in the U.S.

Data and text messaging will still continue work. A great alternative is to use data-based voice services like Facetime or WhatsApp - but please be aware that 911 does not work from these apps.

We also launched VoLTE on July 1, 2022 - which means that VoLTE capable phones can still make voice calls from the U.S. 


## 9-1-1 Fee increasing April 1, 2023

On April 1, 2023, the Saskatchewan Government is increasing the 9-1-1 call taking fee that supports emergency services. The increase will be an additional $0.13 per month.

Lüm includes 9-1-1 fees at the time of membership - so any memberships purchased or renewed as of April 1, 2023 will have the following increases to their 9-1-1 fee:

· 3 month: $6.24

· 1 year: $24.96

Customers with memberships purchased before April 1, 2023 won't pay the increased 9-1-1 fee until their next membership renewal.


## Accessibility information

Lüm Mobile customers who identify as blind, deaf, or hard of hearing are eligible for an extended 30-day trial period on any new membership.  

The Accessibility self-declaration form can be used to apply for this. One form will need to be completed and submitted per membership. 

## Bringing your current phone number to Lüm Mobile

You can bring most Saskatchewan phone numbers to Lüm Mobile (if you're not sure, contact your old provider). Once you have your SIM card, follow the activation steps to bring it over.

A few things to know before porting your number over:

Your number must be active with your previous provider to be brought over.
We can only bring 306 and 639 numbers to Lüm Mobile
If there's anything owing on your other account, the port-in won't work.
If it's a landline that's tied to your security system or Internet provider, you'll want to call them before you bring your number.
During the port-in request, you'll be asked about your old account's:

Address on file
Phone number
The type of number
Current provider
Details using one of the following:
Account number
Keep your old SIM in your phone to receive a text to approve the transfer.

For a list of possible errors, see Troubleshooting port-in error messages.

 Wireless number transfers usually takes a few seconds, but can sometimes take up to 2 hours to get a response from your old provider. A home phone transfer can sometimes take up to 24 hours.


## Buying a phone

Although we don’t sell phones – there are lots of great options available when you need a new one!

If using VoLTE (and the ability to make traditional phone calls in the U.S.) is important to you - check out which phones are VoLTE capable.

Buying a new phone 

You can buy a new phone from: 

Another wireless provider that sells them (usually called "Device only") 
A department store that has an Electronics department or Mobile kiosk
Directly from the phone manufacturer – they usually also offer payment options like financing to help you budget for the latest and greatest device (if that is important to you!). Such as: 
Apple [https://www.apple.com/ca/shop/buy-iphone] 
Samsung [https://www.samsung.com/ca/mobile/] 
Buying a used phone 

You can buy a used phone from: 

A website selling refurbished or renewed phones (just do an online search)
Another person on a market site (Facebook Marketplace, Kijiji) 
A friend or family member (hope they give you a good deal 😉)
Before you buy a phone from someone, ask for the IMEI number. This tells you if the phone is on the lost or stolen blacklist database and if it'll work on our network. 

Most phones that have been used in Canada or the U.S. are compatible with Lüm service. See our Getting Started page for more information.

For more information about the blacklist database, check out the Device Check Canada website.

## Emergency alerts on your phone

The province uses SaskAlert (Saskatchewan's Emergency Public Alerting program) to alert the public in real-time of an emergency situation - and we know that some mobile phones are not compatible to automatically receive the SaskAlert emergency messages. 

Most phones that were made after March 2018, and have LTE service at the time of the announcement, should receive the alert.

If your phone is not compatible and you want to receive SaskAlert messages - please download the SaskAlert app by searching for "Saskatchewan Emergency Alert" in the Google Play Store or App Store.

* Getting help with a used phone

A lot of department stores now sell phones. Whether you bought it from a box store or online website, you may need help if it suddenly stops working. All websites are required to provide information about return policies and warranty periods, so they're usually a good place to start.

Here's a few tips if you need to get your phone fixed:

Return policies

Most places have a return policy for phones. Make sure you keep your email or physical receipt and it should say what their policy is.

Warranty period

Some department stores also provide warranty periods. These are typically longer than the return policy and cover most hardware defects that could happen. A lot of these warranty periods are tied with the phone manufacturer and will recommend you reach out directly to them if you need help.

Outside warranty

There's a few options after your phone's warranty has expired. You can still work with the phone manufacturer to get your phone fixed, but since the warranty has expired, you'll have to pay for their services.

Another option is to take it to the many phone repair shops that have opened in the last few years. They're local and you won't have to ship your phone to the manufacturer. Just web search "phone repair near me" and you'll see what your options are.

For more information on the Alert Ready system go to the Alert Ready website.

# IMEI Eligibility

Phones brought from outside North America may have issues with receiving phones calls, texts messages, or using data. If your phone was flagged in the IMEI lookup as having limited network access, here's why:

The wireless network is broken down into two different bands.

LTE Band: Used for VoLTE calls and data usage.
3G Band: Used for non-VoLTE phone calls and texting.


To check what coverage your device will get:

Check your IMEI in the IMEI database.
Find the network information for HSDPA (3G) and LTE.
Compare them with the information in the table below.


Example

The phone below is able to use 850 MHz on both HSDPA (3G) and LTE, so it would have full coverage on both.

*.Limitations of 9-1-1

There are limitations to wireless 9-1-1. Here's a few to help you understand what factors may cause the service to not work.

Coverage

We use the SaskTel wireless network. While it serves 99% of the Saskatchewan population, it's impossible to cover 100% of the land base. Also, within wireless coverage areas, many things can interfere with wireless signals between towers and cell phones. For example, trees and man-made structures can block the line of sight and prevent a wireless connection on your phone.

Battery life

Wireless device batteries wear down more quickly in remote areas when they're always searching for a network connection.

Using a wireless phone for 9-1-1 calls

Coverage

A wireless device must be connected to a local wireless network to call 9-1-1. If you're in a place where the wireless signal is poor or unavailable, you may not be able to call 9-1-1 (or anyone else).

Finding the caller / emergency location

When calling 9-1-1 from a wireless device:

Your general location will be found but can't provide a specific address
The call has to last 30 seconds for your location to be found
You'll also need to:

Tell them the 10-digit phone number you're calling from
Describe where you are with as much detail as possible
Stay on the line until they tell you to hang up
Keep your phone handy in case they call you back
Have enough battery life or a way to charge your phone
For more tips and information from the Canadian Wireless Telecommunications Association, see Using your mobile phone in an emergency.

*.Linked Accounts
By Lüm MatthewLast Updated: Aug 10, 2022
What is a Linked Account? 

Linking with Lüm lets you add other members onto your myLüm account, so you can manage multiple accounts from one place. Linking works great if you have people in your life (maybe your kids, partner, or parents) that also subscribe to Lüm and you want the ability to access / manage their service. 

(Linking with other members does not mean you share or pool data and memberships – everyone still purchases and uses their own membership & data). 

You can link an existing member that already subscribes to Lüm or you can sign up and link someone brand new to Lüm. You decide how much (or how little) control and permissions your linked members have. 

Keep in mind – if you allow your account to be linked, the primary member (that linked you) will always have full access and the ability to manage your account. Linking is not right for you if you are NOT comfortable with your primary member having access and the ability to:

Make purchases to the payment card saved to your account 
Make changes to your membership, add-ons and auto-pay 
Pause or cancel your service 
Change notification settings 
View your usage records (calls, texts, data sessions) 
View your personal profile information & purchase history 
Remove your myLüm access 
 

Permissions, Settings, Notifications 

Access to myLüm 

Turn on to give the linked member full access and control to their account – such as making purchases, receiving notifications, viewing usage, cancelling, etc. 
Notifications: you will not receive service notifications on behalf of the linked member. 
You will have full access & full permissions to their account as well (if you choose to switch to their profile) 

Turn off and only you can access and control the members account. The linked member will have no ability to log in, access, or manage their myLüm account and services. 
Notifications: you will receive the members email service notifications. 
However, as the user of the mobile phone, the linked member has the right and ability to initiate moving their number to a different provider – you will be notified by email if a number move is requested.  
The linked member will still receive the following service notifications by text directly to their phone - but you can turn them off here if you want: membership expiry warnings, low data warnings, roaming notice. 


 Payment Card 

Turn on if you are linking an existing member and want to keep their original payment card. You can also add a new payment card to their profile.  
Turn off to use your payment card saved to your own profile. 


Unlink Account 

Remove the linked member from your account 
Does not cancel the members service 
If the member doesn’t already have access to their myLüm account you will complete a few steps to provide them access.  
If you ever move your phone number to a different provider - you must first remove all your linked accounts. You cannot complete a number move if you have members linked to your account. 


# Lüm Mobile Terms of Service
By Lüm MobileLast Updated: Mar 23, 2023
Lüm Mobile is a digital only wireless service (the "Service") that gives customers access to Lüm’s wireless network to make and receive calls, send and receive text messages, and use data. These are the Lüm Mobile terms of service. Customers can manage their own account by purchasing memberships and then data as needed. Use of the Service requires payment in advance. 

“Us”, “we”, “our” or "Lüm” means Lüm Mobile; “you” or “your” means the person purchasing wireless service from Lüm Mobile.

## Membership
Included in your membership is:
the option to purchase Canada Data for calling, messaging and data service in Canada, and Travel Data for roaming in the United States ("U.S."), and Mexico (see Service Area and Coverage Details for exclusions),
moving your existing phone number from another provider or establish a new number
service activation with no additional charge,
one SIM card with your first membership,
access to the Lüm Member Forum for support, 
unlimited incoming text (SMS) message, and
calling features including Call Display and access to Call Forwarding (universal/busy/no answer), Call Waiting, and Three-way calling.
Membership purchase does not include data.
You must purchase Canada Data with your first membership purchase.
You must accept these terms before purchasing a membership.
See [https://lum.ca/plan] for membership options.
Memberships auto-renew with current in market pricing to help you avoid losing your data balance. You can opt-out of membership auto-renewal in your myLüm account. Your payment card details are kept in your account for future purchases; however, it is your responsibility to ensure that payment card information is kept up to date.
If your membership expires, your account will be suspended and you’ll lose access to wireless services through Lüm. You’ll need to renew your membership to access your data and resume your service.
If you cancel your membership at anytime, or if your membership is expired for 60 days, the following will automatically occur:
your myLüm account will be terminated.
you will not be able to use any services,
your purchased data will be forfeited; and
your wireless phone number will be forfeited.
 
If you move your phone number to another provider, your membership will be cancelled, you will lose your myLüm account, and your purchased data will be forfeited.
Only customers with an active membership can purchase and use data or other add-ons.
There is a 15 day trial period for new memberships that starts on the date of activation. If a membership is cancelled during the 15 day trial period, a full refund for the membership fee, 9-1-1 fees, taxes and the Talk & Text add-on will be provided. There is no refund for Canada or Travel Data that has been purchased. After the trial period, memberships can be cancelled at anytime, but no refunds will be provided. If you have self-declared as a person with a disability, your trial period is 30 days. 
Your payment information is saved in your account for future purchases so anyone with your password can purchase memberships or data on your behalf and you specifically agree to those purchases. You are responsible for use of your account and all purchases made through it. Share your password only with those permitted to make purchases on your behalf. You agree that Lüm has no liability of any kind relating to your use of your myLüm account or the use of anyone whom you allow to use your account.
Memberships are non-transferrable and are for use by the person who opened the account, or their immediate family only.
The membership fee does not include 9-1-1 fees or taxes.
Once you create an account you have 15 days to purchase a membership. After 15 days, the account will be deleted if a membership has not been purchased.

## Eligibility for Service
Customers must reside in Saskatchewan and have a billing and shipping address within the province to sign up for the Service.
You must bring your own phone. Lüm Mobile is not responsible for the setup, operation, or maintenance of your phone. It is your responsibility to ensure that your phone is compatible with our network and that it complies with the rules and regulations of Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada (ISED). Lüm Mobile provides no warranty or promise of any kind for your phone. To check your phone eligibility, go to [https://lum.ca/bringphone].
If at any time during your membership with Lüm you cease to meet the eligibility requirements specific to the Service to which you are subscribed, then Lüm Mobile may alter your service, up to and including termination, to bring your Service into compliance with your eligibility. Lüm will notify you when such a change has been made.
Your phone and its software must meet minimum Lüm network standards. Our network standards will be updated sometimes, and you may no longer be able to use the service without upgrading your software or device.
Data

## Use and Data Charges
Once you have a membership, you need to purchase Canadian Data, the Talk and Text add-on and/or Travel Data to make phone calls, send messages and use data services. When you talk, send a text message or use data, the applicable data cost is deducted from your data balance unless you have the Talk and Text add-on.
Your data balance does not expire while you have an active membership, but once a membership expires, any data remaining expires 60 days after your membership end date. You cannot use data that you’ve purchased without an active membership. When you renew your membership - any data you have in your balance will carry over.
When you are getting close to using up your data, we will send you a notification (unless you chose to opt-out of the notification). If you run out of data, you will not be able to use any services. You will need to recharge your data balance to resume your Service. If you have the Talk and Text add-on you can still make and receive calls and texts. If you run out of data, 9-1-1 calls can still be made.
File attachments such as pictures and video sent through a text messaging app are converted to Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) and are not considered text messages (SMS). MMS messages are deducted from your data balance. Your phone may covert other messages to MMS as well.
Sent and received text messages have a character limit that will vary according to the customer's phone. This limit automatically includes the sender's return address, which may vary in length. Messages longer than the character limit will be split and charged as multiple messages.
Lüm Mobile attempts to deliver text messages for up to twenty-four (24) hours. If the recipient's phone is off or unreachable for longer than 24 hours, the message is deleted from the Lüm Mobile system and not delivered.
Partial minutes are rounded up to full minutes
Data cannot be transferred to another customer

   
## Canada Data
Auto-recharge can be turned on in your myLüm account to automatically purchase data for you when your balance is close to running out or based on a schedule that you create.
If you have data set to auto-recharge, it will automatically purchase data the current in-market rate.
When you talk, send a text message, or use data while in Canada, the applicable data amount is deducted from your data balance as follows:
   
## Travel data
- You can purchase Travel Data to roam in the U.S. and Mexico where service is available. Data purchased for Canada cannot be used in the U.S. and Mexico. Customers must purchase Travel Data to use service in these countries. Travel Data:
- may only be used outside of Canada
- cannot be transferred to the Canada data balance; and 
- is non-refundable
 
- Every time you talk, send a message, or use data, the applicable cost is deducted from your Travel Data balance. Outgoing text messages are deducted from the data balance at a rate of 1 MB per message. All incoming and outgoing voice calls are deducted from the data balance at a rate of 1 MB per minute. MMS messages are deducted from the data balance based on the actual size of the picture or video.

## The Talk & Text add-on does not include calls made and messages sent while roaming outside of Canada.
Travel Data cannot be set to auto-pay.

If you purchase $100 in Travel Data in any 30-day period, you will be required to consent to purchases over $100.


## Talk & Text Add-on (Optional)
The Talk & Text add-on includes unlimited outgoing calls and messages while you are in Canada to Canada and the U.S. It also includes incoming calls and text messages while you are in Canada from Canada and the U.S.. The Talk & Text add-on does not include calls made and messages sent while roaming outside of Canada. Picture and video messages (MMS) are not included in the Talk & Text add-on. The talk and text add on will automatically renew when the membership auto-renews, and you will be charged the current in-market rate. You can cancel the Talk & Text Add-on anytime but it will not be refunded.



## Linked Accounts
Linking with Lüm lets you add other members onto your myLüm account, so you can manage multiple accounts from one place. You can decide if the linked account has access to manage their service in their myLüm account and who is responsible for paying for charges on the linked account.

Linking with other members does not mean you share or pool data and memberships – everyone still purchases and uses their own membership and data.
If a linked account is given access to myLüm, the primary account will not receive any notifications on behalf of the linked member. If a linked account does not have access to their myLüm account, the primary account will receive email notifications on behalf of the linked member.
If a payment card is not added for a linked account, all purchases will be charged to the primary account payment card. The primary account is accountable for all purchases made by the linked account.
You can remove a linked member from your account at any time. This does not cancel the member’s service.
If you allow your account to be linked, the primary account that linked you will always have full access to your myLüm account and the ability to:
Make purchases for your account
Make changes to your membership, add-ons and auto-pay
Pause or cancel your service
Change notification settings
View your usage records (calls, texts, data sessions)
View your personal information & purchase history
Remove your myLüm access
If you allow your account to be linked, the primary account that linked you can remove your access to myLüm. Only the primary account holder can reestablish your myLüm access.

## 9-1-1 Service, Fees, and Emergency Alerts
9-1-1 Emergency service is available where network connectivity is available in Canada. You must provide your location and call back number as these details are not automatically available to 9-1-1 service operators. 9-1-1 may not always work, and you agree that Lüm is not responsible if it doesn’t.
A 9-1-1 fee applies to all memberships purchased for Lüm Mobile. The fee is an amount we must pay to the 9-1-1 service operator for 9-1-1 to work on your phone. This fee will be charged in addition to the membership fee whenever a membership is purchased. The 9-1-1 fee is charged for the total number of months that the membership is valid. If a membership is cancelled with more than a month remaining, the unused 9-1-1 fee will be refunded back to the payment card on the account.
We are not responsible for the operation of public alerting systems, including the Alert Ready System. We do not control the content, timing and/or who can receive messages. See alertready.ca/wireless for current alerts and further details.

## Service Area & Coverage Details
You can use the Service within Lüm’s coverage areas in Saskatchewan or areas served by companies with whom we have roaming agreements in the rest of Canada.
You can call and text numbers in Canada, the U.S., and Mexico. You cannot receive international calls and text messages from countries other than Canada, the U.S., and Mexico. The U.S. includes Alaska, Hawaii and the country of Guam. All other U.S. territories and holdings are excluded.
Roaming is available in the U.S. and Mexico where Lüm has agreements with roaming partners. Coverage areas, and the connectivity in these areas, will depend on the availability of network facilities which is subject to change from time to time, without notice.
The services of Lüm or any other carrier are provided on an as-is/as-available basis and without guarantee or warranty for the performance, availability, coverage, uninterrupted use, security or operation of such services.
Where you roam on any other wireless carrier’s network, you have no relationship with the roaming carrier and they have no obligation to you. They are not responsible for any problems you might experience while roaming and that you won’t make any claims of any kind against anyone as a result of roaming.
The types of services available for your use while roaming are dependent on the services made available by the other carrier on their network and the specific terms of the roaming agreement in place between Lüm and the carrier. Unless you opt out, you will receive notification from us when you use your Service outside of Canada, providing you with information about roaming rates for that country.
Roaming is only available in the U.S. and Mexico.

## Managing your myLüm account
Visit myLüm or download the myLüm mobile app to access and manage your myLüm account, add data, view your data balance, create or cancel auto-pay, view payment history, and manage your notifications.

Your myLüm registration is not transferable. Your registration and account have no expiry date unless terminated by you or by Lüm. Use of your account after it has been terminated is illegal and fraudulent.
Lüm reserves the right to cancel your account and your right to access myLüm if Lüm suspects or determines your use is fraudulent, interferes with the use of the Website by others, or is for an unlawful or illegal purpose or otherwise contravenes any applicable law or regulation
Your sole and exclusive remedy for any dispute or claim you may have resulting from your use of myLüm is to terminate your account.
You may review, correct, update or cancel your myLüm account at anytime by logging in to myLüm. You agree that Lüm may retain all information related to your myLüm account for a reasonable period of time after your account is terminated for the purpose of administering your account.

By accepting this Agreement you expressly agree that any communication respecting any aspect of your myLüm account, use of our website (subject to the Websiter Terms and Conditions), the service, or promotions (including information on new products, special offers, newsletters) may be sent to you by Lüm through email or by any other means of communication. You can opt out of receiving Lüm promotional communications at any time.
If you opt out of service notifications, you will not receive important updates about your data balance, renewals, expiring memberships, or other factors that could affect your ability to use the service.

## Service & Support
Lüm is a digital only service. Help is available online through help articles, the Lüm Member Forum and the 24/7 virtual assistant chat, Lümbot. Lüm does not offer call centre or in-person support. No sales, service, or support are available from SaskTel or SaskTel Authorized Dealers.
If you are having performance issues with the Service visit [https://lum.ca/help]. 

# Legal Terms
## Fair and Appropriate Use
You can only use Lüm Mobile services for your own individual use, with compatible devices and in compliance with the law. You also agree not to:
use the service for resale of any kind;
use the service for sending threats or obscene material, harassment, or invading privacy;
compromise the security of or interfere with the Service in any manner;
use the service in any way that adversely impacts network capacity or that may significantly negatively affect other Lüm Mobile customers or the service;
engage in any activity on the Lüm Mobile or partner networks that is seen as excessive or malicious, as solely determined by Lüm Mobile.
use lost or stolen devices to access the service;
 You agree that sending or making mass and/or unsolicited texts or calls using Lum whether for advertising or other purposes is prohibited. Lüm will not attempt to mediate or otherwise become involved in any particular argument or dispute between users of the Service. Lüm will co-operate with appropriate law enforcement agencies involved in investigating instances that may be reported to such authorities by users of the Service who believe they are being subject to unlawful harassment or other criminal activity.
You agree not to threaten, abuse or harass any Lüm Mobile customer representative and understand that your membership will be terminated without refund where abuse has been found.

Lüm Mobile services are meant to be used primarily within Saskatchewan. If more than half of your data usage on an ongoing basis is occurring outside of Saskatchewan, Lüm Mobile reserves the right to limit your data speeds, the amount of data transferred, deny, suspend or terminate the service or any part, component or feature thereof, without notice, to anyone believed to be using any Lüm Mobile provided wireless service or feature in any manner that adversely impacts Lüm Mobile.

## Network Operation, Details & Limitations
The Lüm Mobile network has been designed in accordance with industry standard specifications to be secure, we offer no warranty, representation or promise of any kind either that the Service will remain uninterrupted or that the Service is secure or will not be breached. You acknowledge that it is your responsibility to implement your own security measures while using the Service.
You receive access to our full network, including all of the latest technology that we’ve deployed. Speeds are limited by environmental factors including tower locations, distance from cell sites, network congestion, tower hand-offs, and device used. Be careful, we don’t throttle your speeds.
You agree to follow all rules, regulations and policies governing the use of the Service. Lüm Mobile may update or change these rules from time to time, and it's your responsibility to understand and follow the current policies, rules, and regulations.
When using the Service, including data sessions, you will follow all applicable laws and any Service rules adopted by us from time to time addressing such things as safe driving and health and safety guidelines. You can only use the Service for customary voice, messaging and wireless data service. Such customary use does not include any application or use which degrades or interferes with our ability to provide services, including the Service, to others, as we determine.

## Phone Numbers
You can move the phone number you are using to another service provider but you don’t own the phone number.
If you leave Lüm and don’t move the number you use to another provider within the allotted time frame, we have the right to assign that number to another customer. Customers don’t have any rights to telephone numbers used by them even if the number is in the phone book.
We may, after giving you at least thirty days’ notice, change any phone number without liability where we have reasonable grounds for changing a number and give you reasonable advance notice stating the reason for and the anticipated date of the change, or in cases of emergency, give the customer verbal notice, which must be followed by a written explanation as soon as possible.

## Changes to the Terms of Service
We have the right to change the terms of service without notice. It is your responsibility to review these Terms of Service from time to time to check for any amendments to these Terms of Service. By using the service after a change is made, you accept and agree to and are bound by the current version of these Terms of Service. We may change rates for memberships and plans without notice effective immediately.

## Default
Any one or more of the following is considered an event of deafult and may results in the cancellation of your service:
if you fail to perform or observe any obligation we described above; or
if supplied any incorrect or incomplete information in connection with the Service; or
if you use the Service we provide in a manner that negatively affects our network or any other customer in any way whatsoever; or
if you are in breach of the terms of any of our policies that apply to the Service.

If you are in default, or if you are in breach our Fair and Appropriate Use terms, we reserve the right to suspend your account and to stop selling future services to you and retain amounts paid by you to us.

## Limitation of Liability and Indemnity
If any person makes a claim against Lüm in connection with use of our service or of any device on your account, you will indemnify us against any loss or expense that we may incur, including any judgment made against us. 

None of the limitations of liability stated apply in cases of deliberate fault, gross negligance or anti-competitive conduct on the part of Lüm Mobile or in cases of breach of contract where the breach results from our gross negligance. 

Lüm Mobile is not responsible for:

Libel, slander, defamation or the infringement of copyright arising from material or messages transmitted from your property or premises or recorded by your equipment or Lüm Mobile's equipment;
Damages arising out of your act, default, neglect or omission in the use or operation of equipment provided by Lüm Mobile;
Damages arising out of the transmission of material or messages over Lüm Mobile networks on your behalf, which is in any way unlawful; or
Any act, omission or negligence of other companies or telecommunications systems in relation to the provision of the service to you, when the facilities of such other companies or telecommunications systems are used to establish connections to or from facilities and equipment controlled by you. To the fullest extent permitted by law, Lüm Mobile will not liable to you or to any other person for any damages or expenses (including loss of profits, loss of earnings, loss of business opportunities, loss of data, economic losss or other similar loss, or punitive damages) arising out of or in connection with the use or failure of the service, whether caused by negligence or otherwise, and whether claimed in contract, tort or otherwise.
You acknowledge and agree that there is some content accessible through the Service that may be offensive to you or a user of your Service, or that may not be in compliance with applicable law. For example, it is possible to obtain access to content that is pornographic, obscene, or otherwise inappropriate or offensive, particularly for children. We assume no responsibility for and exercise no control over the content accessible through the Service. You agree that all content you and your end users access and use with the Service is at your and their own risk. We are not liable for any claims, losses, actions, damages, suits or proceedings arising out of or otherwise relating to your and/ or your end users access to such content.

## General
Lüm Mobile is not a monthly billed service and a monthly invoice is not provided. Receipts for purchases are available in Purchase History in your myLüm account.
If your phone is lost or stolen, you can suspend data use in you myLüm account. Your membership period will continue to run but your phone will not be able to make calls, texts, or use data. 
You can request to have your contact information (name, phone number and address) listed in the Mysask411 Directory by contacting Directwest at 1-800-667-8201. We are not responsible for removing your listing from the directory if your Service is cancelled, nor are we are liable for damages arising from errors or omissions in a listing. To edit or cancel your listing, phone Directwest.
A valid email address is required to be a Lüm customer. We will deliver the following to you electronically:
 
a copy of these Terms of Service;
purchase confirmation and receipts;
follow-up information regarding your service;
other service-impacting information; and
offers and promotions that might be of interest to you.
You can manage your notification preferences in your myLüm account at any time.
 The following policies apply to the Lüm Mobile Service and can be found at the locations indicated below:
Lüm Mobile Privacy Policy: [https://lum.ca/privacy]
Understanding Wireless 9-1-1 Limitations and Safety: [https://lum.ca/911]
CRTC Wireless Code: [https://lum.ca/wirelesscode]
Lüm Mobile Wireless Coverage: [https://lum.ca/coverage]
Lüm Mobile Member Forum Terms of Service: [https://lum.ca/terms]
Lüm Mobile Website Terms and Conditions: [https://lum.ca/terms]
If there is conflict between these Terms of Service and the above referenced documents, these Terms of Service will govern.
Any content you post on official Lüm managed social media pages, such as pictures, information or opinions, is subject to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policies of those respective platforms. Please refer to them to better understand your rights and obligations with regard to such content.
Pricing on the Lüm website does not include applicable taxes such as GST and PST.
If you dispute payments or data deductions, you have to contact us within 30 days of the payment date or data was deducted from balance. If you don’t contact us, the charges and data deductions have been accepted by you.
This Terms and Conditions are in all respects governed by and will be interpreted in accordance with the law of the Province of Saskatchewan.
If any part of these Terms of Service is unenforceable, that part will be struck and the remainder of the agreement shall remain in effect.

## Lüm network capabilities
Our future roadmap includes all network advancements that are possible by North American providers. Here's a list of what we have so far:

LTE-Advanced data
LTE data
4G data
3G data
3G voice
SMS (text messages)
VoLTE
For a list of VoLTE capable devices, go to this link: VoLTE capable devices - Member Forum (lum.ca)

## Lüm network settings (APN)

These settings allow you to use data and picture messaging (MMS). Most phones will get these settings by default so you likely won't need to use these.

Make sure your phone:

Is unlocked.
Has your Lüm SIM card inserted.
Can text and make phone calls.
If you can't, you may have inserted your SIM wrong.

Find your phone's APN settings:
Apple: View and edit your Access Point Name (APN) on your iPhone
Android: Settings > Connections >Mobile networks > Access Point Names > Add

Enter the settings: 
Name: Lum 
APN: lum 
MMSC: http://mms.lum.ca/ 
MMS proxy or Proxy server: mig.lum.ca 
MMS port: 80 
APN type: default,mms,supl 
Mobile virtual network operator type: GID 
You may not have this option 
Mobile virtual network operator value: 5A 
You may not have this option 
﻿ 🚩 Don't change any other settings!

Still can’t get it working? 

Let the community know and they’ll help get you running! 

## Making a complaint

Here are ways to reach out if you have a complaint, concern or dispute

Find information at [https://lum.ca/cms/contact]

Or you can contact the CCTS

Commission for Complaints for Telecom-television Services (CCTS) is an independent agency / ombudsman whose mandate is to resolve complaints of consumers about their telecom and TV services, and complaints of small business customers about their telecom services, free of charge. If you have a complaint about your telephone, wireless, internet or TV service, you must first try to resolve it directly with your service provider. If you have done so and have been unable to reach satisfactory resolution, CCTS may be able to help you.

To learn more about CCTS, you may visit its website at: http://www.ccts-cprst.ca/ or call toll-free at 1.888.221.1687. You can also learn more about the CRTC at: crtc.gc.ca





## Number verification on VoLTE calls

Some devices from Apple and Samsung support a calling feature that uses Caller ID (on an incoming call) to verify the call is coming from a verified number.

It is meant to help confirm the phone number is legitimate - and not spam / fraudulent.

Customers on the latest iOS (iPhone8 and newer) or Android that receive a call on VoLTE may notice the verification:

iPhone includes a checkmark on phone records in the call log.

Android includes a check mark & "Number Verified" wording on the incoming call.


## Questions about Lüm SIM card shipping

This FAQ was made to help with common questions around SIM shipping.

I ordered a SIM but my tracking code is blank. Did I do something wrong?

Not at all! Once your SIM is ordered, you'll receive an email that confirms a SIM will be shipped to you. Our warehouse typically creates the order within 24 hours of purchase. If the tracking number is blank, it means we haven't sent it to Canada Post just yet.

Once I get my tracking code how long does it take before it arrives?

We use Canada Post Priority shipping which means your SIM order should arrive within 2 business days.

I think something is wrong with my request. Can someone take a look at it?

Yes! Submit a trouble ticket and we'll sort it out for you :)

## Setting up your voicemail

Dial one of the options:
* 99 
Press the voice mail button on your iPhone calling app (except new activations)
306-520-MAIL (306-520-6245)
Hold 1 (except new activations)
Your own phone number and press 7 during the greeting
Enter a new PIN and press #.
Record your name.
Pick between a system greeting or a personal greeting.
Press the * key to end the call.
Enter your 10-digit phone number and press #.
If you hear: "This is not a valid phone number. Enter the 10-digit number including the area code."

Make sure you purchased voicemail correctly.
Restart your phone and try again.
Raise a ticket.
If voicemail isn't picking up

Go to your myLüm profile and click on Settings.
Click on Manage Call Forwarding.
Turn on Busy, No Answer, and Not Reachable.
Change the number to 13065206245 and Update for each option.
Try checking your voicemail to see if it's working.


## Text messages from Lüm Mobile

We use numbers called short codes to keep you up to date.

42000: Used in all notifications including low data, membership expiring, and auto-pay.

463811: Used to update your network settings for data.


22.Turning on group messaging for Android phones

Open your messaging app on your phone.
In the top right corner, click on the 3 dots.
Click on Settings > More Settings >Multimedia Messages>Group conversation
Turn on Group conversation
You may need to remove the group and re-add it.

## Understanding referrals

Existing members with active memberships can find a referral code in myLüm that can be given to any new member signing up for service for the first time. This gives the new member a $25 discount off their first purchase and the existing member a $25 discount off their next membership renewal (if new member doesn't cancel within 15 days after activating).

Maximum 2 referral discounts per membership period - two $25 discounts for a total savings of $50 off next membership renewal
No carry over to next membership
Once you renew, your referral count goes back down to 0 and you can receive 2 more referral discounts again

## Understanding Usage History

Usage History shows daily data usage in 5.00 MB segments or less.

If you use less than 5.00 MB during one session, you will see a charge for the exact amount of data used.
If you use more than 5.00 MB in one day, it will show time stamps when you used 5.00 MB.
If you use more than 5.00 MB in one second, you will see multiple lines with the exact same time stamp.
Example of daily usage

November 26: 4.78 MB.
November 27: 3.66 MB.
November 28: 14.06 MB.
5.00 MB was used by 9:25 AM.
Another 5.00 MB was used by 4:48 PM.
4.06 MB was used in the remainder of the day.

## Understanding what uses your data

With Lüm, there are no charges for minutes or messages: just MB. Calls and texts come out of your data balance. That’s how we do things at Lüm - we think that if you don’t make calls, you shouldn’t pay for them either.

1 MB of data = 10 outgoing texts (incoming is free)

1 MB of data = 1 minute to talk anywhere in Canada

That means with just 1 GB you can talk for 8 hours AND send 5,000 text messages, and you’ll have lots of data left to do everything else you need.

If you want to keep it old school, great! Add the Talk & Text add-on to your Lüm membership for unlimited talk and texts from within Canada to anywhere in Canada or the U.S.

## Using Lüm Mobile outside of Canada

Traditional voice phone calls, SMS (text) messages, and data can only made within and to Canada, the U.S. & Mexico. See our plans page for more information about roaming!

You can use your Lüm data to stay connected with friends and family Internationally by using calling or messaging apps like WhatsApp over Wi-Fi .

You can still take your device Internationally and explore other ways to use mobile service, like buying a SIM card from the International location you are travelling to or using Wi-Fi while there.


## VoLTE capable devices

For VoLTE capable phones - this means high-definition voice calls, faster call connection times and improved battery life.

The following devices are VoLTE compatible, which means we expect them to work on LTE networks in Canada or United States, unless otherwise noted. We will be keeping this list up to date and changing it frequently. 

🚩 These phones must have the latest software version and LTE turned on to work.

VoLTE and VoLTE roaming compatible devices
iPhone models

The following iPhones include all Pro, Max, or Mini models:

15 Plus
15 Pro
15
15 Pro Max
14 Pro Max
14 Pro
14
14 Plus
13 Pro Max
13 Pro
13
13 Mini
12 Pro Max
12 Pro
12
12 Mini
SE (3rd generation)
SE (2nd generation)
SE (1st generation)
11 Pro Max
11 Pro
11
8 Plus
8
7 Plus
7
XS Max
XS
XR
X
6S Plus
6S
Samsung Galaxy models

A13 5G
A54
A53
A52
A32
S23
S23 Ultra
S23+
S22
S22 Ultra
S22+
S21 5G
S21 FE 5G
S21 Ultra 5G
S21+ 5G
S20 5G
S20 FE 5G
S20 Ultra 5G
S20+ 5G
Z Flip 5G
Z Flip 5
Z Fold 5
Z Flip 4
Z Fold 4
Z Flip 3 5G
Z Fold 3 5G
A71
A51
A21
A12
A11
A03s
J3 - NOT VoLTE roaming compatible
A14 5G
S10
S10e
S10+
Note 10
Note 10+
Note 20 Ultra 5G
Samsung devices require a software update to enable VoLTE roaming.

If you don't have the latest operating system on your device, you may need to update your software to get VoLTE roaming to work.
To check for software updates: Go to Settings > scroll down and tap Software update > tap Download and install > Check for Update.
Google Model

Pixel 8 Pro
Pixel 8P
LG model

Velvet
Motorola

Moto Edge (2022)
Moto G 5G (2023)
Moto G 5G
Moto G Power
Moto G Pure
Moto G Stylus 5G
Moto Edge (2023)
Sonim

XP3plus - NOT VoLTE roaming compatible
XP10
TCL

20 Pro 5G
30 5G
30 XE 5G
40 XE 5G
303
ZTE

Blade A7P
Blade Cymbal 2 (2022)
Connect Hub 5G
Blade A3 Plus



## Why isn't the voicemail button or holding 1 working?

If you purchase voicemail at the same time you activate a new Lüm account, it may take up to one week to be able to hold the number 1 or press the voicemail button on your iPhone to access your mailbox. To set up your mailbox and PIN, dial * 99 or 306-520-MAIL (306-520-6245) from your phone - your temporary PIN is your 10-digit Lüm phone number.  

After one week, you can start using the short codes above. 

# Troubleshooting


## Call quality issues on VoLTE

If you notice your calls' audio is dropping out or the person you're talking to mentions it:

Check if VoLTE is turned on.
Disable it and make another call.
If the quality is better, we recommend finishing the call in 3G and then turning VoLTE back on afterwards. If you're roaming in the U.S., you'll need VoLTE to make calls.


  

## Identifying what is causing data usage

There are no scenarios where data usage can happen without your phone using it. Some apps like System Settings have the ability to force you to use data, even if you're on Wi-Fi. We recommend tracking these apps on your phone so you can determine what may be causing data usage.

Recommendations:

iPhone users: Use cellular data on your iPhone
Android and Pixel users: Reduce & manage mobile data usage
There are also apps you can download from the Google Play Store or Apple Store to track usage.

## Missing Lüm Mobile emails

Missing an email from us? Here's a few things to check:

Junk Folder of your email Inbox.
Email forwarding rules (ex: Hotmail emails forwarded to your Gmail account).
Spelling of your email address (pobody's nerfect).
Check your Notifications in myLüm.

* In case of user is not logged in and any trouble ticket number given in prompt it should say it is unable to find in database as customer has not logged in, please login. 
* In case of authenticated user show the data available regarding that ticket number (if any).

## Troubleshooting data

First time setup? Check your Lüm network settings.

Disconnect from Wi-Fi.
Check your remaining data in myLüm.
Check how many bars you have. If your signal strength is low, your data may not work
Toggle Airplane mode on your phone.
Restart your phone.
Check the Member Forum to see if an outage is posted.
Let the community know in the Discussion threads and one of our members will help you.
If they can't, they'll tell you to raise a trouble ticket.


## Troubleshooting phone calls

Make sure you have data or the Talk & Text add-on.
Check how many bars you have. If you don't have service, you can't make phone calls.
Text someone or use your data to make sure you have service.
Call another number to make sure the issue is happening on your end.
Toggle Airplane mode.
Restart your phone.
Let the community know and one of our members will help you.
Check the Discussion threads to see if there's an outage.
If the community can't help, they'll tell you to raise a trouble ticket.


## Troubleshooting port-in error messages

Here are a few possible error messages you may see when you're transferring your number to us.

- Rejection reason: IMEI incorrect(port-in error).

We DON'T recommend using IMEI. There's a good chance the IMEI that your previous carrier has on file isn't correct. If you get this error, try using your account number instead.
If you still want to use your IMEI, make sure to use only the first 15 digits and have no spaces in between the numbers. If it still says it's wrong, you'll need to use the account number.

- Rejection reason: Due time is invalid.

This is a cache error. The easiest way to fix this is to open an incognito browser or re-install the app to finish SIM activation.
- Rejection reason: Port Out Authentication - Customer does not respond.

Remember you have to keep your old provider's SIM in your phone until we tell you to insert ours. You need to respond to a text message from them to say yes to porting your number.
Rejection reason: Address incorrect.

You may have moved and not updated your address with your old provider.
- Rejection reason: Password/PIN incorrect.

If you created a password on your account for verification, you can try using it here.
Rejection reason: Phone number not active.

If you cancelled your service with your old provider or selected the wrong one, you will receive this error. To make sure you don't lose your number, you'll have to call your old provider and activate service before trying to port over.
- Rejection reason: Number is not portable

Your number is either not from Saskatchewan or you may still owe something with your old carrier. You'll have to contact your old provider to see why they're denying the request.

- Enabling SMS bypass
If you move your phone number to another provider, you are required to respond to a text message to authorize it. If you have not received a message, make sure to follow these steps: Log into myLüm. Click on Settings. Scroll down and click Enable ByPass SMS.

- Rejection reason: Request cancelled.
This can happen if the browser or app window is left open for too long and times out.


## Troubleshooting roaming

For U.S or Mexico roaming, make sure you have travel data purchased!

Make sure you have the right travel data in myLüm.
Check how many bars you have. If you don't have service, you can't make phone calls.
Get someone you're with to text you. If you receive it but can't send texts, you probably don't have data.
Call another number to make sure the issue is happening on your end.
Toggle Airplane mode.
Restart your phone.
Let the community know and one of our members will help you.
Check the Discussion threads to see if there's an outage.
If they can't, they'll tell you to raise a trouble ticket.


## Troubleshooting text messages

Did you just get a new phone?

Check your network settings.
Try making a phone call to make sure you have service.
If you switched from an iPhone to an Android, check out how to Deregister iMessage online.
Text another number. You may have the contact info wrong in your Address Book.

## Can't send/receive texts?

Make sure you have data or the Talk & Text add-on for sending texts.
Try making a phone call to make sure you have service.
Text another number to make sure the problem is happening on your end.
If it's only happening with 1 number, delete the conversation and create a new one.
Toggle Airplane mode.
Restart your phone.
Check the Discussion threads to see if there's an outage.
Let the community know and one of our members will help you.
If they can't, they'll tell you to raise a trouble ticket.


# Get your SIM!
eSIM is easy! eSIM is a digital SIM that works the same as a physical SIM card. That means you can Lüm right away! No waiting for a SIM card to be shipped to you.
But if you still need a physical SIM card – don’t worry! We’ll ship you one for free. SIM cards are mailed by Canada Post and will be delivered in 1 to 3 business days.

* 9-8-8 Suicide Crisis Helpline
9-8-8 is a free service for anyone who is thinking about suicide, or who is worried about someone they know. Call or text 9-8-8 toll-free, anytime to connect to a responder to get help without judgement. Support is in English or French. For more information, visit https://988.ca. 

* What is 9-8-8?  
9-8-8 Suicide Crisis Helpline is a three-digit helpline that provides urgent, live support by phone and text to people in every province and territory across the country.   
9-8-8 is available in English and French, 24 hours a day, every single day of the year across the country.   
9-8-8 is for anyone thinking about suicide, or worried about someone they know. Trained 9-8-8 responders will answer calls and texts and listen without judgement while providing support. 

* Who should call 9-8-8?  

9-8-8 is for anyone who is thinking about suicide, or who is worried about someone they know.  
Suicide prevention is the primary focus of 9-8-8, but no one who calls or texts the helpline will be turned away. Everyone who contacts 9-8-8 will be assessed for suicide risk, and all 9-8-8 responders are trained to respond to people going through a range of crises. 

* Who runs 9-8-8?  
The Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH) in Toronto, Ontario is leading and coordinating the delivery of 9-8-8 nationwide.   
A growing network of more than 40 experienced local, provincial, territorial, and national crisis lines across the country provide culturally appropriate, lifesaving support to people who call or text 9-8-8.  
9-8-8 is funded by the Government of Canada, through the Public Health Agency of Canada. 

* What happens when I call 9-8-8?  

When you call 9-8-8, before you are connected to a 9-8-8 responder, you will hear a brief pre-recorded message to let you know you are in the right place.  
Most callers at this point will also hear a few short questions, such as whether you’d like to talk to someone in English or French, if you are under 18, and if you would like to speak to a responder that has experience supporting First Nations, Inuit, and Métis people. The message will also let you know how you can find out more about using the service, including about confidentiality.  
In some parts of Canada, you will be put straight through to the existing crisis service for your province or territory and will hear a welcome message from that service.  
All callers will be put through to a responder who will listen and provide support. If you need to wait for a short time, please stay with us –we will answer your call.   
Whatever you are facing, 9-8-8 responders are here to help. No one who reaches out to 9-8-8 will be turned away. 

* What happens when I text 9-8-8?  

When you text 9-8-8, you will first see some automated messages before you connect to the live text service.  
You will be asked if you want to text in English or French, and will be sent a link to find out more about using the service, including about confidentiality.  
You will reach a responder who will listen and provide support. If you need to wait for a short time, please stay with us –we will answer your text. 

### port out
        -When you are porting out to another service provider you will be required to confirm this by replying yes to a text message. If you have not received this text message, please enable sms bypass by (provide link of article [https://lum.ca/search?search=bypass] ). If you have a linked account you will need to delink them prior to porting out (provide link to article []) otherwise there shouldn't be other port protection on the account. Please raise a ticket if you require further assistance.
	
### Disable port protection
	    -When you are porting out to another service provider you will be required to confirm this by replying yes to a text message. If you have not received this text message, please enable sms bypass by (provide link of article [https://lum.ca/search?search=bypass] ). If you have a linked account you will need to delink them prior to porting out (provide link to article []) otherwise there shouldn't be other port protection on the account. Please raise a ticket if you require further assistance	

### payment failed
In case of payment failed kind of prompt, give steps to user to create a ticket to get the payment repushed along with the response to contact bank or credit card company. Also suggest user to check if the card is updated. 

### Customer service agent 
In case of any user prompts containing word agent, person, customer care it should respond with information including Lum is a 100% digital and ask the user to create a ticket.
 
### Change Language 
When asked about changing a language you should respond with something like that 'you can ask me in any language you wish to get assistant'. 

### suggest me weekend plans
If any prompt comes up with word plan in it (like weekend plan, holiday plan, leisure plan etc)  show the breakdown of Lum plans.

### What is Wi-Fi Calling?

Wi-Fi Calling lets you make and receive voice calls and send and receive text messages over a Wi-Fi connection when the cellular signal is poor or non-existent.
One common misconception about Wi-Fi Calling is that it's entirely free, but it's important to note that when you make a call or text using Wi-Fi Calling, the call minutes and texts used are still deducted from your data balance unless you have the Talk & Text add-on. For more details have a look [https://help.lum.ca/kb/articles/126-wi-fi-calling-and-texting]